                       SECTION 2-4 May 2, 1980

         INSTRUCTIONS FOR GETTING THE TARBELL DOUBLE DENSITY
         INTERFACE OPERATING WITH CP/M 2.x WHEN YOU HAVE CP/M
       2.x ALREADY GOING ON A TARBELL SINGLE-DENSITY INTERFACE

      1.  First make sure that your situation matches the title above.
If it doesn't, find another sheet that does match.

      2.  Check the option jumpers on  your  double-density interface
board  against the manual to make sure the board is addressed for E0
through F8 (hex), and that all other options are correct.

Use your current single density interface, operating under CP/M 2.x
to do the following steps:

      3.  Use the FORHAT91 program on the public domain #2 disk
(provided with the interface) to format at least two disks. DON'T use
any of your old format programs to do this. When it says "READY TO
FORMAT?" be SURE to get the public domain disk out of there before
typing Y. Test the disks using the DISKTEST program.

      4.  Put one of the newly formatted disks in drive B. Put a disk
with your normal CP/M 2.x system and system programs in drive A.    Now
perform the following steps:

       a) logged into drive A, type SYSGEN. Answer source as
          drive A, destination as drive B.  Reboot.
       b) type PIP with no arguments, then the following steps.
          *B:=A:CPM.COM
          *B:=A:DDT.COM
          *B:=A:ASM.COM
          *B:=A:SYSGEN.COM
          *B:=A:ED.COM
       c) while still in the PIP program, remove your system diskette
          from drive A, then insert into drive A the Public Domain #2
          diskette that came with the double-density interface. Then
          continue as shown below:
          *B:=A:2ABIOS24.ASM
          *B:=A:2DBOOT24.ASM

      5. Now take out the public domain disk 12 and put it aside.
Take the newly formatted disk out of drive B and put it into drive A.
Boot up on it. It should corne up normally, since a copy of your
system was just put onto it.

      6. Using ED.COM, edit the 2ABIOS24.ASM to change the EQU's for
your memory size, console, printer, drives, etc. Leave the DMACNTL
and DUBSID EOU's set to FALSE. Set the MSIZE EQU to the same size as
the CP/M 2.x system you are now running on this disk. Be sure to set
the console port numbers correctly. If you have Shugart 800 drives,
don't set the step rate any faster than 10 ms. Exit from the editor.
Rename the file to 2ABIOSxx.ASM, where xx is your MSIZE.

      8. Assemble 2ABIOSxx.ASM with ASM.COM. Print the .PRN file if
desired, then erase it.

      9. Using ED.COM, edit 2DBOOT24.ASM. Set the MSIZE EQU to the
size used above. Leave the DOUBSID, DOUBDEN, and DMACNTL EQU's set to
FALSE. Exit from the editor. Rename the file to 2DBOOTxx.ASM.

      10. Assemble 2DBOOTxx.ASM with ASM.COM. Print the .PRN file if
desired, then erase it.

      11. Use SYSGEN to put a copy of your current CP/M 2.x system
onto the disk as a file. When it asks for source, answer A. When it
asks for destination, press carriage-return to reboot. Then do a SAVE
34 CPMxx.COM, where xx is your system size.

      12. Use DDT to bring in the CPMxx.COM file and to overlay the
BIOS and BOOT hex files onto it. Type DDT CPMxx.COM. Then type
I2ABIOSxx.HEX .  Then type Rbias where xx is MSIZE and bias is in the
table below:

       xx  bias        xx  bias        xx  bias        xx  bias
       20  D580        24  C580        28  B580        32  A580
       36  9580        40  8580        44  7580        48  6580
       52  5580        56  4580        60  3580        64  2580

    Now type I2DBOOTxx.HEX  .  Then type R900 .  Then do Ctl-C.

      13. Next enter SYSGEN. When it asks for source, press return to
skip. When it asks for destination, type A. At this point you may
write this system onto more than one disk. After you are finished
writing onto the disk(s), DON'T press return to reboot.

      14. You can now shut off your computer, remove the
single-density interface, and put the double-density interface in.
Then turn your computer back on.

      15. The system you have just written onto one or more disks
should now boot up correctly on the double-density interface. If it
doesn't, check over the BIOS and BOOT .PRN files to make sure all
EQU's were set correctly. Check your board to verify again that all
the jumper options are right. If you still can't get it going, read
section 2-3 of these instructions.

      16. If the system does come up correctly, congratulations! You
are now running the double-density interface in non-DMA mode. If you
want to operate double-density next, see section 2-2 of these
instructions. If you want to try operating in DMA mode, go to step 6
in this section, changing the DMACNTL EQU to TRUE in both the BIOS and
the BOOT .ASM files. The rest of the instructions are the same.

      17. Finally, if you notice any errors in this documentation,
PLEASE call or write about it.

